In this clip we're going to talk about the
proper service procedure to replace your engines
timing belt and water pump. In this step,
we're going to talk about the proper method
for reinstalling your vehicles harmonic balancer.
What I have here in my hands, is the harmonic
balancer. Now it's made in three pieces. What
you have is the inner cast iron piece, that's
this chunk right here, a layer of rubber,
which is this piece right here, it runs all
the way around, and the outer portion, which
is going to be the pulley for all of your
belts. Now the reason why they call it a harmonic
balancer, is this rubber inside here, deadens
the vibration on your crank shaft. It makes
a harmonic vibration, just when the engine
runs, similar to rubbing your finger around
the edge of a wine glass. Now without this
balancer on there, it will eventually shatter
the harden steel crank shaft, just like breaking
a wine glass. How you install one of these,
you're going to want to take and pay attention
if there's a key way. You'll notice there'll
be an index inside here, and there'll be a
corresponding index on the crack shaft itself.
There either is, or there isn't, there's no
half way. This one doesn't have one, so this
one just slips on anyway you want, it's going
to go on just like this. You're going to want
to pay particular attention, make sure to
put it on the right way, because they're extremely
tough to pull off. You're going to want to
take a look at it. As you can see here, you
can see the tooth marks embedded in the iron
from the gripping teeth, on our washer, that's
going to indicate that this is the outside
of the pulley. What we're going to do, is
take and line it up, on the end of the crank
shaft. I'm going to hold it steady, just like
so, and just get it started by tapping on
it with a rubber mallet. Now you're not supposed
to beat these very hard with a steel mallet.
One thing you'll do is mushroom the end, and
make it difficult for your bolt to go through.
The other thing you're doing, is, you're going
to be jamming the crank shaft, which is not
a good idea, it's very tough on the bearings
and it can be tough on the transmission as
well, because you'll be jamming the bearings
inside the transmission. You're just going
to take your rubber mallet, and give it a
couple of taps, just to get it started. We're
going to actually use the bolt to pull it
down tight. Once you have your harmonic balancer
tapped on, just enough to get a couple of
threads started. What I mean by a couple of
threads, is about that much of the bolt. We're
going to need enough to grip it strong enough,
to pull it down. But you're not going to want
to beat your harmonic balancer on. The one
thing you're going to want to avoid, is getting
that balancer jammed on there crooked, you'll
never get it off, or get it on right, for
that matter. What you're going to see is,
have it on there; I got about a quarter inch
of threads, which is enough to get me enough
grip, to pull that harmonic balancer down.
Now your engine is designed to rotate, and
it's going to want to turn, instead of pull
this balancer down. I'm going to take and
hold onto the pulley with my hand, and just
crank it down. You may have to use a small
pry bar, just take, and insert it in here,
to hold it steady. Make sure to not pry against
anything plastic, or anything that may break,
while you're tightening down your harmonic
balancer. Alright, and there you go. That
is the proper service procedure for installing
your harmonic balancer.